# portfolio

This is a portfolio website that I created as part of a project assignment in Codecademy's Frontend Development career path. I created mockups of the portfolio layout using Figma so that I could visualize how I wanted the website to look for the web, tablet, and mobile. I also used the mockups as a chance to decide what color scheme I wanted to use as well as the types of fonts that I wanted to include. My goal for the website was to make it look organized while still allowing me to play around with details suchs as the border. I took inspiration for the layout and use of color from the website of web designer Meagan Fisher Couldwell (https://owltastic.com). I decided to use a dark blue, golden yellow, and beige for the color scheme so the website can give off a welcoming and warm feeling. While I like the color combination that I ended up using, I think that for a more official protfolio I would go with a single accent color and then black, grey, and white for the additional colors, so that the colors don't take away from the content.

After designing the mock up and the layouts for different screen sizes, I started to build the website. I went in and add all of the html for all of the pages first learning thoughout the way the best practice of how to organize html, css, and javascript files in a folder. My first true hurdle came with the css and deciding what size of screen to start building from. I know it is best to start with the mobile size first, but at the time I was still unable to visualize how that would work when I was working on a computer screen. So after some research, I started with the main styles of the webpage that would remain similar throughout all of the pages, like the header, footer, and border. Afterwards I focused solely on constructing the homepage where I used the inspect tools on Chrome to view the website's layout on a mobile screen size. I then took the dimensions I had in my mock ups for the mobile version and started to apply them using media queries. Once I had this first instance of mobile size created, figuring out the tablet size was alot easier. Slowly by the end of building all of the webpages the process became more familiar.

The final step of this project was to add interactive elements, one of which had be created using javascript. This also proved to be a bit of a dificulty for me as I still didn't quite understand in what wasy to apply javascript to my website as I had not really planned to include elements that required movement and most of the examples that I had seen in codecademy weren't really applicable to the type of website I was creating. So I spent some time reading articles and looking at examples of how certain protfolios used javascript. I decided to apply javascript to add color changes to the buttons as a first step.

This was my first attempt at creaeting a website that included more than just the homepage. It was an interesting process to develop a routine how how I approached one website after the other. So far this has been one of the projects that I have spent the most time working on, so that was a new aspect of the creation process that this project presented me with. While I might not use this exact design and layout to create my own official portfolio, it was still a great learing expereince and it has given me ideas of where I want to take my future portfolio website and how I want to build it.
